@node perldelta, perlfaq, perltoc, Top
@unnumberedsec NAME
perldelta - what@'s new for perl5.004

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION
This document describes differences between the 5.003 release (as
documented in @emph{Programming Perl}, second edition--the Camel Book) and
this one.

@unnumberedsec Supported Environments
Perl5.004 builds out of the box on Unix, Plan 9, LynxOS, VMS, OS/2,
QNX, AmigaOS, and Windows NT.  Perl runs on Windows 95 as well, but it
cannot be built there, for lack of a reasonable command interpreter.

@unnumberedsec Core Changes
Most importantly, many bugs were fixed, including several security
problems.  See the Changes file in the distribution for details.

@unnumberedsubsec Compilation option: Binary compatibility with 5.003
There is a new Configure question that asks if you want to maintain
binary compatibility with Perl 5.003.  If you choose binary
compatibility, you do not have to recompile your extensions, but you
might have symbol conflicts if you embed Perl in another application,
just as in the 5.003 release.  By default, binary compatibility
is preserved at the expense of symbol table pollution.

@unnumberedsubsec $PERL5OPT environment variable
You may now put Perl options in the $PERL5OPT environment variable.
Unless Perl is running with taint checks, it will interpret this
variable as if its contents had appeared on a "#!perl" line at the
beginning of your script, except that hyphens are optional.  PERL5OPT
may only be used to set the following switches: @strong{-[DIMUdmw]}.

@unnumberedsubsec Limitations on -M, -m, and -T options
The -M and -m options are no longer allowed on the #! line of
a script.  If a script needs a module, it should invoke it with the
use pragma.

The -T option is also forbidden on the #! line of a script,
unless it was present on the Perl command line.  Due to the way #!
works, this usually means that -T must be in the first argument.
Thus:


@example
#!/usr/bin/perl -T -w
@end example

will probably work for an executable script invoked as @code{scriptname},
while:


@example
#!/usr/bin/perl -w -T
@end example

will probably fail under the same conditions.  (Non-Unix systems will
probably not follow this rule.)  But @code{perl scriptname} is guaranteed
to fail, since then there is no chance of -T being found on the
command line before it is found on the #! line.

@unnumberedsubsec More precise warnings
If you removed the -w option from your Perl 5.003 scripts because it
made Perl too verbose, we recommend that you try putting it back when
you upgrade to Perl 5.004.  Each new perl version tends to remove some
undesirable warnings, while adding new warnings that may catch bugs in
your scripts.

@unnumberedsubsec Deprecated: Inherited @code{AUTOLOAD} for non-methods
Before Perl 5.004, @code{AUTOLOAD} functions were looked up as methods
(using the @code{@@ISA} hierarchy), even when the function to be autoloaded
was called as a plain function (e.g. @code{Foo::bar()}), not a method
(e.g. C<Foo->bar()> or C<$obj->bar()>).

Perl 5.005 will use method lookup only for methods@' @code{AUTOLOAD}s.
However, there is a significant base of existing code that may be using
the old behavior.  So, as an interim step, Perl 5.004 issues an optional
warning when a non-method uses an inherited @code{AUTOLOAD}.

The simple rule is:  Inheritance will not work when autoloading
non-methods.  The simple fix for old code is:  In any module that used to
depend on inheriting @code{AUTOLOAD} for non-methods from a base class named
@code{BaseClass}, execute @code{*AUTOLOAD = \&BaseClass::AUTOLOAD} during startup.

@unnumberedsubsec Subroutine arguments created only when they@'re modified
In Perl 5.004, nonexistent array and hash elements used as subroutine
parameters are brought into existence only if they are actually
assigned to (via @code{@@_}).

Earlier versions of Perl vary in their handling of such arguments.
Perl versions 5.002 and 5.003 always brought them into existence.
Perl versions 5.000 and 5.001 brought them into existence only if
they were not the first argument (which was almost certainly a bug).
Earlier versions of Perl never brought them into existence.

For example, given this code:


@example
undef @@a; undef %a;
sub show @{ print $_[0] @};
sub change @{ $_[0]++ @};
show($a[2]);
change($a@{b@});
@end example

After this code executes in Perl 5.004, $a@{b@} exists but $a[2] does
not.  In Perl 5.002 and 5.003, both $a@{b@} and $a[2] would have existed
(but $a[2]@'s value would have been undefined).

@unnumberedsubsec Group vector changeable with $)
The $) special variable has always (well, in Perl 5, at least)
reflected not only the current effective group, but also the group list
as returned by the @code{getgroups()} C function (if there is one).
However, until this release, there has not been a way to call the
@code{setgroups()} C function from Perl.

In Perl 5.004, assigning to $) is exactly symmetrical with examining
it: The first number in its string value is used as the effective gid;
if there are any numbers after the first one, they are passed to the
@code{setgroups()} C function (if there is one).

@unnumberedsubsec Fixed parsing of $$<digit>, &$<digit>, etc.
Perl versions before 5.004 misinterpreted any type marker followed by
"$" and a digit.  For example, "$$0" was incorrectly taken to mean
"$@{$@}0" instead of "$@{$0@}".  This bug is (mostly) fixed in Perl 5.004.

However, the developers of Perl 5.004 could not fix this bug completely,
because at least two widely-used modules depend on the old meaning of
"$$0" in a string.  So Perl 5.004 still interprets "$$<digit>" in the
old (broken) way inside strings; but it generates this message as a
warning.  And in Perl 5.005, this special treatment will cease.

@unnumberedsubsec No resetting of $. on implicit close
The documentation for Perl 5.0 has always stated that $. is @emph{not}
reset when an already-open file handle is reopened with no intervening
call to close.  Due to a bug, perl versions 5.000 through 5.003
@emph{did} reset $. under that circumstance; Perl 5.004 does not.

@unnumberedsubsec wantarray may return undef
The wantarray operator returns true if a subroutine is expected to
return a list, and false otherwise.  In Perl 5.004, wantarray can
also return the undefined value if a subroutine@'s return value will
not be used at all, which allows subroutines to avoid a time-consuming
calculation of a return value if it isn@'t going to be used.

@unnumberedsubsec Changes to tainting checks
A bug in previous versions may have failed to detect some insecure
conditions when taint checks are turned on.  (Taint checks are used
in setuid or setgid scripts, or when explicitly turned on with the
-T invocation option.)  Although it@'s unlikely, this may cause a
previously-working script to now fail -- which should be construed
as a blessing, since that indicates a potentially-serious security
hole was just plugged.

The new restrictions when tainting include:

@table @asis
@item No glob() or <*>
These operators may spawn the C shell (csh), which cannot be made
safe.  This restriction will be lifted in a future version of Perl
when globbing is implemented without the use of an external program.

@item No spawning if tainted $CDPATH, $ENV, $BASH_ENV
These environment variables may alter the behavior of spawned programs
(especially shells) in ways that subvert security.  So now they are
treated as dangerous, in the manner of $IFS and $PATH.

@item No spawning if tainted $TERM doesn@'t look like a terminal name
Some termcap libraries do unsafe things with $TERM.  However, it would be
unnecessarily harsh to treat all $TERM values as unsafe, since only shell
metacharacters can cause trouble in $TERM.  So a tainted $TERM is
considered to be safe if it contains only alphanumerics, underscores,
dashes, and colons, and unsafe if it contains other characters (including
whitespace).

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec New Opcode module and revised Safe module
A new Opcode module supports the creation, manipulation and
application of opcode masks.  The revised Safe module has a new API
and is implemented using the new Opcode module.  Please read the new
Opcode and Safe documentation.

@unnumberedsubsec Embedding improvements
In older versions of Perl it was not possible to create more than one
Perl interpreter instance inside a single process without leaking like a
sieve and/or crashing.  The bugs that caused this behavior have all been
fixed.  However, you still must take care when embedding Perl in a C
program.  See the updated perlembed manpage for tips on how to manage
your interpreters.

@unnumberedsubsec Internal change: FileHandle class based on IO::* classes
File handles are now stored internally as type IO::Handle.  The
FileHandle module is still supported for backwards compatibility, but
it is now merely a front end to the IO::* modules -- specifically,
IO::Handle, IO::Seekable, and IO::File.  We suggest, but do not
require, that you use the IO::* modules in new code.

In harmony with this change, @code{*GLOB@{FILEHANDLE@}} is now just a
backward-compatible synonym for @code{*GLOB@{IO@}}.

@unnumberedsubsec Internal change: PerlIO abstraction interface
It is now possible to build Perl with AT&T@'s sfio IO package
instead of stdio.  See @xref{perlapio,Perlapio}, for more details, and
the @file{INSTALL} file for how to use it.

@unnumberedsubsec New and changed syntax
@table @asis
@item $coderef->(PARAMS)
A subroutine reference may now be suffixed with an arrow and a
(possibly empty) parameter list.  This syntax denotes a call of the
referenced subroutine, with the given parameters (if any).

This new syntax follows the pattern of S<C<$hashref->@{FOO@}>> and
S<C<$aryref->[$foo]>>: You may now write S<@code{&$subref($foo)}> as
S<C<$subref->($foo)>>.  All of these arrow terms may be chained;
thus, S<C<&@{$table->@{FOO@}@}($bar)>> may now be written
S<C<$table->@{FOO@}->($bar)>>.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec New and changed builtin constants
@table @asis
@item __PACKAGE__
The current package name at compile time, or the undefined value if
there is no current package (due to a @code{package;} directive).  Like
@code{__FILE__} and @code{__LINE__}, __PACKAGE__ does @emph{not} interpolate
into strings.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec New and changed builtin variables
@table @asis
@item $^E
Extended error message on some platforms.  (Also known as
$EXTENDED_OS_ERROR if you @code{use English}).

@item $^H
The current set of syntax checks enabled by @code{use strict}.  See the
documentation of strict for more details.  Not actually new, but
newly documented.
Because it is intended for internal use by Perl core components,
there is no @code{use English} long name for this variable.

@item $^M
By default, running out of memory it is not trappable.  However, if
compiled for this, Perl may use the contents of $^M as an emergency
pool after die()ing with this message.  Suppose that your Perl were
compiled with -DEMERGENCY_SBRK and used Perl@'s malloc.  Then


@example
$^M = @'a@' x (1<<16);
@end example

would allocate a 64K buffer for use when in emergency.
See the @file{INSTALL} file for information on how to enable this option.
As a disincentive to casual use of this advanced feature,
there is no @code{use English} long name for this variable.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec New and changed builtin functions
@table @asis
@item delete on slices
This now works.  (e.g. @code{delete @@ENV@{@'PATH@', @'MANPATH@'@}})

@item flock
is now supported on more platforms, prefers fcntl to lockf when
emulating, and always flushes before (un)locking.

@item printf and sprintf
Perl now implements these functions itself; it doesn@'t use the C
library function sprintf() any more, except for floating-point
numbers, and even then only known flags are allowed.  As a result, it
is now possible to know which conversions and flags will work, and
what they will do.

The new conversions in Perl@'s sprintf() are:


@example
%i      a synonym for %d
%p      a pointer (the address of the Perl value, in hexadecimal)
%n      special: *stores* the number of characters output so far
     into the next variable in the parameter list 
@end example

The new flags that go between the % and the conversion are:


@example
#       prefix octal with "0", hex with "0x"
h       interpret integer as C type "short" or "unsigned short"
V       interpret integer as Perl@'s standard integer type
@end example

Also, where a number would appear in the flags, an asterisk ("*") may
be used instead, in which case Perl uses the next item in the
parameter list as the given number (that is, as the field width or
precision).  If a field width obtained through "*" is negative, it has
the same effect as the @'-@' flag: left-justification.

See @samp{sprintf}, @xref{perlfunc,Perlfunc}, for a complete list of conversion and flags.

@item keys as an lvalue
As an lvalue, keys allows you to increase the number of hash buckets
allocated for the given hash.  This can gain you a measure of efficiency if
you know the hash is going to get big.  (This is similar to pre-extending
an array by assigning a larger number to $#array.)  If you say


@example
keys %hash = 200;
@end example

then @code{%hash} will have at least 200 buckets allocated for it.  These
buckets will be retained even if you do @code{%hash = ()}; use @code{undef
%hash} if you want to free the storage while @code{%hash} is still in scope.
You can@'t shrink the number of buckets allocated for the hash using
keys in this way (but you needn@'t worry about doing this by accident,
as trying has no effect).

@item my() in Control Structures
You can now use my() (with or without the parentheses) in the control
expressions of control structures such as:


@example
while (defined(my $line = <>)) @{
    $line = lc $line;
@} continue @{
    print $line;
@}

if ((my $answer = <STDIN>) =~ /^y(es)?$/i) @{
    user_agrees();
@} elsif ($answer =~ /^n(o)?$/i) @{
    user_disagrees();
@} else @{
    chomp $answer;
    die "@`$answer@' is neither @`yes@' nor @`no@'";
@}
@end example

Also, you can declare a foreach loop control variable as lexical by
preceding it with the word "my".  For example, in:


@example
foreach my $i (1, 2, 3) @{
    some_function();
@}
@end example

$i is a lexical variable, and the scope of $i extends to the end of
the loop, but not beyond it.

Note that you still cannot use my() on global punctuation variables
such as $_ and the like.

@item pack() and unpack()
A new format @'w@' represents a BER compressed integer (as defined in
ASN.1).  Its format is a sequence of one or more bytes, each of which
provides seven bits of the total value, with the most significant
first.  Bit eight of each byte is set, except for the last byte, in
which bit eight is clear.

Both pack() and unpack() now fail when their templates contain invalid
types.  (Invalid types used to be ignored.)

@item sysseek()
The new sysseek() operator is a variant of seek() that sets and gets the
file@'s system read/write position, using the lseek(2) system call.  It is
the only reliable way to seek before using sysread() or syswrite().  Its
return value is the new position, or the undefined value on failure.

@item use VERSION
If the first argument to use is a number, it is treated as a version
number instead of a module name.  If the version of the Perl interpreter
is less than VERSION, then an error message is printed and Perl exits
immediately.  Because use occurs at compile time, this check happens
immediately during the compilation process, unlike @code{require VERSION},
which waits until runtime for the check.  This is often useful if you
need to check the current Perl version before useing library modules
which have changed in incompatible ways from older versions of Perl.
(We try not to do this more than we have to.)

@item use Module VERSION LIST
If the VERSION argument is present between Module and LIST, then the
use will call the VERSION method in class Module with the given
version as an argument.  The default VERSION method, inherited from
the UNIVERSAL class, croaks if the given version is larger than the
value of the variable $Module::VERSION.  (Note that there is not a
comma after VERSION!)

This version-checking mechanism is similar to the one currently used
in the Exporter module, but it is faster and can be used with modules
that don@'t use the Exporter.  It is the recommended method for new
code.

@item prototype(FUNCTION)
Returns the prototype of a function as a string (or undef if the
function has no prototype).  FUNCTION is a reference to or the name of the
function whose prototype you want to retrieve.
(Not actually new; just never documented before.)

@item srand
The default seed for srand, which used to be time, has been changed.
Now it@'s a heady mix of difficult-to-predict system-dependent values,
which should be sufficient for most everyday purposes.

Previous to version 5.004, calling rand without first calling srand
would yield the same sequence of random numbers on most or all machines.
Now, when perl sees that you@'re calling rand and haven@'t yet called
srand, it calls srand with the default seed. You should still call
srand manually if your code might ever be run on a pre-5.004 system,
of course, or if you want a seed other than the default.

@item $_ as Default
Functions documented in the Camel to default to $_ now in
fact do, and all those that do are so documented in @xref{perlfunc,Perlfunc}.

@item @code{m//gc} does not reset search position on failure
The @code{m//g} match iteration construct has always reset its target
string@'s search position (which is visible through the pos operator)
when a match fails; as a result, the next @code{m//g} match after a failure
starts again at the beginning of the string.  With Perl 5.004, this
reset may be disabled by adding the "c" (for "continue") modifier,
i.e. @code{m//gc}.  This feature, in conjunction with the @code{\G} zero-width
assertion, makes it possible to chain matches together.  See @xref{perlop,Perlop},
and @xref{perlre,Perlre}.

@item @code{m//x} ignores whitespace before ?*+@{@}
The @code{m//x} construct has always been intended to ignore all unescaped
whitespace.  However, before Perl 5.004, whitespace had the effect of
escaping repeat modifiers like "*" or "?"; for example, @code{/a *b/x} was
(mis)interpreted as @code{/a\*b/x}.  This bug has been fixed in 5.004.

@item nested @code{sub@{@}} closures work now
Prior to the 5.004 release, nested anonymous functions didn@'t work
right.  They do now.

@item formats work right on changing lexicals
Just like anonymous functions that contain lexical variables
that change (like a lexical index variable for a @code{foreach} loop),
formats now work properly.  For example, this silently failed
before (printed only zeros), but is fine now:


@example
my $i;
foreach $i ( 1 .. 10 ) @{
        write;
@}
format =
        my i is @@#
        $i
.
@end example

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec New builtin methods
The UNIVERSAL package automatically contains the following methods that
are inherited by all other classes:

@table @asis
@item isa(CLASS)
@code{isa} returns @emph{true} if its object is blessed into a subclass of CLASS

@code{isa} is also exportable and can be called as a sub with two arguments. This
allows the ability to check what a reference points to. Example:


@example
use UNIVERSAL qw(isa);

if(isa($ref, @'ARRAY@')) @{
   ...
@}
@end example

@item can(METHOD)
@code{can} checks to see if its object has a method called @code{METHOD},
if it does then a reference to the sub is returned; if it does not then
undef is returned.

@item VERSION( [NEED] )
VERSION returns the version number of the class (package).  If the
NEED argument is given then it will check that the current version (as
defined by the $VERSION variable in the given package) not less than
NEED; it will die if this is not the case.  This method is normally
called as a class method.  This method is called automatically by the
VERSION form of use.


@example
use A 1.2 qw(some imported subs);
# implies:
A->VERSION(1.2);
@end example

@end table
@strong{NOTE:} @code{can} directly uses Perl@'s internal code for method lookup, and
@code{isa} uses a very similar method and caching strategy. This may cause
strange effects if the Perl code dynamically changes @@ISA in any package.

You may add other methods to the UNIVERSAL class via Perl or XS code.
You do not need to @code{use UNIVERSAL} in order to make these methods
available to your program.  This is necessary only if you wish to
have @code{isa} available as a plain subroutine in the current package.

@unnumberedsubsec TIEHANDLE now supported
See @xref{perltie,Perltie}, for other kinds of tie()s.

@table @asis
@item TIEHANDLE classname, LIST
This is the constructor for the class.  That means it is expected to
return an object of some sort. The reference can be used to
hold some internal information.


@example
sub TIEHANDLE @{
        print "<shout>\n";
        my $i;
        return bless \$i, shift;
@}
@end example

@item PRINT this, LIST
This method will be triggered every time the tied handle is printed to.
Beyond its self reference it also expects the list that was passed to
the print function.


@example
sub PRINT @{
        $r = shift;
        $$r++;
        return print join( $, => map @{uc@} @@_), $\;
@}
@end example

@item PRINTF this, LIST
This method will be triggered every time the tied handle is printed to
with the @code{printf()} function.
Beyond its self reference it also expects the format and list that was
passed to the printf function.


@example
sub PRINTF @{
    shift;
          my $fmt = shift;
    print sprintf($fmt, @@_)."\n";
@}
@end example

@item READ this LIST
This method will be called when the handle is read from via the read
or sysread functions.


@example
sub READ @{
        $r = shift;
        my($buf,$len,$offset) = @@_;
        print "READ called, \$buf=$buf, \$len=$len, \$offset=$offset";
@}
@end example

@item READLINE this
This method will be called when the handle is read from. The method
should return undef when there is no more data.


@example
sub READLINE @{
        $r = shift;
        return "PRINT called $$r times\n"
@}
@end example

@item GETC this
This method will be called when the getc function is called.


@example
sub GETC @{ print "Don@'t GETC, Get Perl"; return "a"; @}
@end example

@item DESTROY this
As with the other types of ties, this method will be called when the
tied handle is about to be destroyed. This is useful for debugging and
possibly for cleaning up.


@example
sub DESTROY @{
        print "</shout>\n";
@}
@end example

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec Malloc enhancements
Four new compilation flags are recognized by malloc.c.  (They have no
effect if perl is compiled with system malloc().)

@table @asis
@item -DDEBUGGING_MSTATS
If perl is compiled with @code{DEBUGGING_MSTATS} defined, you can print
memory statistics at runtime by running Perl thusly:


@example
env PERL_DEBUG_MSTATS=2 perl your_script_here
@end example

The value of 2 means to print statistics after compilation and on
exit; with a value of 1, the statistics ares printed only on exit.
(If you want the statistics at an arbitrary time, you@'ll need to
install the optional module Devel::Peek.)

@item -DEMERGENCY_SBRK
If this macro is defined, running out of memory need not be a fatal
error: a memory pool can allocated by assigning to the special
variable $^M.  See @samp{"$^M"} in this node.

@item -DPACK_MALLOC
Perl memory allocation is by bucket with sizes close to powers of two.
Because of these malloc overhead may be big, especially for data of
size exactly a power of two.  If @code{PACK_MALLOC} is defined, perl uses
a slightly different algorithm for small allocations (up to 64 bytes
long), which makes it possible to have overhead down to 1 byte for
allocations which are powers of two (and appear quite often).

Expected memory savings (with 8-byte alignment in @code{alignbytes}) is
about 20% for typical Perl usage.  Expected slowdown due to additional
malloc overhead is in fractions of a percent (hard to measure, because
of the effect of saved memory on speed).

@item -DTWO_POT_OPTIMIZE
Similarly to @code{PACK_MALLOC}, this macro improves allocations of data
with size close to a power of two; but this works for big allocations
(starting with 16K by default).  Such allocations are typical for big
hashes and special-purpose scripts, especially image processing.

On recent systems, the fact that perl requires 2M from system for 1M
allocation will not affect speed of execution, since the tail of such
a chunk is not going to be touched (and thus will not require real
memory).  However, it may result in a premature out-of-memory error.
So if you will be manipulating very large blocks with sizes close to
powers of two, it would be wise to define this macro.

Expected saving of memory is 0-100% (100% in applications which
require most memory in such 2**n chunks); expected slowdown is
negligible.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec Miscellaneous efficiency enhancements
Functions that have an empty prototype and that do nothing but return
a fixed value are now inlined (e.g. @code{sub PI () @{ 3.14159 @}}).

Each unique hash key is only allocated once, no matter how many hashes
have an entry with that key.  So even if you have 100 copies of the
same hash, the hash keys never have to be reallocated.

@unnumberedsec Support for More Operating Systems
Support for the following operating systems is new in Perl 5.004.

@unnumberedsubsec Win32
Perl 5.004 now includes support for building a "native" perl under
Windows NT, using the Microsoft Visual C++ compiler (versions 2.0
and above).  The resulting perl can be used under Windows 95 (if it
is installed in the same directory locations as it got installed
in Windows NT).  This port includes support for perl extension
building tools like @samp{MakeMaker} in this node and @samp{h2xs} in this node, so that many extensions
available on the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network (CPAN) can now be
readily built under Windows NT.  See http://www.perl.com/ for more
information on CPAN, and @samp{README.win32} in this node for more details on how to
get started with building this port.

There is also support for building perl under the Cygwin32 environment.
Cygwin32 is a set of GNU tools that make it possible to compile and run
many UNIX programs under Windows NT by providing a mostly UNIX-like 
interface for compilation and execution.  See @samp{README.cygwin32} in this node for
more details on this port, and how to obtain the Cygwin32 toolkit.
This port has not been as well tested as the "native" port described
above (which is not as well tested as we@'d like either :)

@unnumberedsubsec Plan 9
See @samp{README.plan9} in this node.

@unnumberedsubsec QNX
See @samp{README.qnx} in this node.

@unnumberedsubsec AmigaOS
See @samp{README.amigaos} in this node.

@unnumberedsec Pragmata
Six new pragmatic modules exist:

@table @asis
@item use autouse MODULE => qw(sub1 sub2 sub3)
Defers @code{require MODULE} until someone calls one of the specified
subroutines (which must be exported by MODULE).  This pragma should be
used with caution, and only when necessary.

@item use blib
@itemx use blib @'dir@'
Looks for MakeMaker-like @emph{@'blib@'} directory structure starting in
@emph{dir} (or current directory) and working back up to five levels of
parent directories.

Intended for use on command line with -M option as a way of testing
arbitrary scripts against an uninstalled version of a package.

@item use constant NAME => VALUE
Provides a convenient interface for creating compile-time constants,
See @samp{"Constant Functions"}, @xref{perlsub,Perlsub}.

@item use locale
Tells the compiler to enable (or disable) the use of POSIX locales for
builtin operations.

When @code{use locale} is in effect, the current LC_CTYPE locale is used
for regular expressions and case mapping; LC_COLLATE for string
ordering; and LC_NUMERIC for numeric formating in printf and sprintf
(but @strong{not} in print).  LC_NUMERIC is always used in write, since
lexical scoping of formats is problematic at best.

Each @code{use locale} or @code{no locale} affects statements to the end of
the enclosing BLOCK or, if not inside a BLOCK, to the end of the
current file.  Locales can be switched and queried with
POSIX::setlocale().

See @xref{perllocale,Perllocale}, for more information.

@item use ops
Disable unsafe opcodes, or any named opcodes, when compiling Perl code.

@item use vmsish
Enable VMS-specific language features.  Currently, there are three
VMS-specific features available: @'status@', which makes $? and
system return genuine VMS status values instead of emulating POSIX;
@'exit@', which makes exit take a genuine VMS status value instead of
assuming that @code{exit 1} is an error; and @'time@', which makes all times
relative to the local time zone, in the VMS tradition.

@end table
@unnumberedsec Modules
@unnumberedsubsec Required Updates
Though Perl 5.004 is compatible with almost all modules that work
with Perl 5.003, there are a few exceptions:


@example
Module   Required Version for Perl 5.004
------   -------------------------------
Filter   Filter-1.12
LWP      libwww-perl-5.08
Tk       Tk400.202 (-w makes noise)
@end example

Also, the majordomo mailing list program, version 1.94.1, doesn@'t work
with Perl 5.004 (nor with perl 4), because it executes an invalid
regular expression.  This bug is fixed in majordomo version 1.94.2.

@unnumberedsubsec Installation directories
The @emph{installperl} script now places the Perl source files for
extensions in the architecture-specific library directory, which is
where the shared libraries for extensions have always been.  This
change is intended to allow administrators to keep the Perl 5.004
library directory unchanged from a previous version, without running
the risk of binary incompatibility between extensions@' Perl source and
shared libraries.

@unnumberedsubsec Module information summary
Brand new modules, arranged by topic rather than strictly
alphabetically:


@example
CGI.pm               Web server interface ("Common Gateway Interface")
CGI/Apache.pm        Support for Apache@'s Perl module
CGI/Carp.pm          Log server errors with helpful context
CGI/Fast.pm          Support for FastCGI (persistent server process)
CGI/Push.pm          Support for server push
CGI/Switch.pm        Simple interface for multiple server types

CPAN                 Interface to Comprehensive Perl Archive Network
CPAN::FirstTime      Utility for creating CPAN configuration file
CPAN::Nox            Runs CPAN while avoiding compiled extensions

IO.pm                Top-level interface to IO::* classes
IO/File.pm           IO::File extension Perl module
IO/Handle.pm         IO::Handle extension Perl module
IO/Pipe.pm           IO::Pipe extension Perl module
IO/Seekable.pm       IO::Seekable extension Perl module
IO/Select.pm         IO::Select extension Perl module
IO/Socket.pm         IO::Socket extension Perl module

Opcode.pm            Disable named opcodes when compiling Perl code

ExtUtils/Embed.pm    Utilities for embedding Perl in C programs
ExtUtils/testlib.pm  Fixes up @@INC to use just-built extension

FindBin.pm           Find path of currently executing program

Class/Struct.pm      Declare struct-like datatypes as Perl classes
File/stat.pm         By-name interface to Perl@'s builtin stat
Net/hostent.pm       By-name interface to Perl@'s builtin gethost*
Net/netent.pm        By-name interface to Perl@'s builtin getnet*
Net/protoent.pm      By-name interface to Perl@'s builtin getproto*
Net/servent.pm       By-name interface to Perl@'s builtin getserv*
Time/gmtime.pm       By-name interface to Perl@'s builtin gmtime
Time/localtime.pm    By-name interface to Perl@'s builtin localtime
Time/tm.pm           Internal object for Time::@{gm,local@}time
User/grent.pm        By-name interface to Perl@'s builtin getgr*
User/pwent.pm        By-name interface to Perl@'s builtin getpw*

Tie/RefHash.pm       Base class for tied hashes with references as keys

UNIVERSAL.pm         Base class for *ALL* classes
@end example

@unnumberedsubsec Fcntl
New constants in the existing Fcntl modules are now supported,
provided that your operating system happens to support them:


@example
F_GETOWN F_SETOWN
O_ASYNC O_DEFER O_DSYNC O_FSYNC O_SYNC
O_EXLOCK O_SHLOCK
@end example

These constants are intended for use with the Perl operators sysopen()
and fcntl() and the basic database modules like SDBM_File.  For the
exact meaning of these and other Fcntl constants please refer to your
operating system@'s documentation for fcntl() and open().

In addition, the Fcntl module now provides these constants for use
with the Perl operator flock():


@example
LOCK_SH LOCK_EX LOCK_NB LOCK_UN
@end example

These constants are defined in all environments (because where there is
no flock() system call, Perl emulates it).  However, for historical
reasons, these constants are not exported unless they are explicitly
requested with the ":flock" tag (e.g. @code{use Fcntl @':flock@'}).

@unnumberedsubsec IO
The IO module provides a simple mechanism to load all of the IO modules at one
go.  Currently this includes:


@example
IO::Handle
IO::Seekable
IO::File
IO::Pipe
IO::Socket
@end example

For more information on any of these modules, please see its
respective documentation.

@unnumberedsubsec Math::Complex
The Math::Complex module has been totally rewritten, and now supports
more operations.  These are overloaded:


@example
+ - * / ** <=> neg ~ abs sqrt exp log sin cos atan2 "" (stringify)
@end example

And these functions are now exported:


@example
pi i Re Im arg
log10 logn ln cbrt root
tan
csc sec cot
asin acos atan
acsc asec acot
sinh cosh tanh
csch sech coth
asinh acosh atanh
acsch asech acoth
cplx cplxe
@end example

@unnumberedsubsec Math::Trig
This new module provides a simpler interface to parts of Math::Complex for
those who need trigonometric functions only for real numbers.

@unnumberedsubsec DB_File
There have been quite a few changes made to DB_File. Here are a few of
the highlights:

@itemize @bullet
@item 
Fixed a handful of bugs.

@item 
By public demand, added support for the standard hash function exists().

@item 
Made it compatible with Berkeley DB 1.86.

@item 
Made negative subscripts work with RECNO interface.

@item 
Changed the default flags from O_RDWR to O_CREAT|O_RDWR and the default
mode from 0640 to 0666.

@item 
Made DB_File automatically import the open() constants (O_RDWR,
O_CREAT etc.) from Fcntl, if available.

@item 
Updated documentation.

@end itemize
Refer to the HISTORY section in DB_File.pm for a complete list of
changes. Everything after DB_File 1.01 has been added since 5.003.

@unnumberedsubsec Net::Ping
Major rewrite - support added for both udp echo and real icmp pings.

@unnumberedsubsec Object-oriented overrides for builtin operators
Many of the Perl builtins returning lists now have
object-oriented overrides.  These are:


@example
File::stat
Net::hostent
Net::netent
Net::protoent
Net::servent
Time::gmtime
Time::localtime
User::grent
User::pwent
@end example

For example, you can now say


@example
use File::stat;
use User::pwent;
$his = (stat($filename)->st_uid == pwent($whoever)->pw_uid);
@end example

@unnumberedsec Utility Changes
@unnumberedsubsec pod2html
@table @asis
@item Sends converted HTML to standard output
The pod2html utility included with Perl 5.004 is entirely new.
By default, it sends the converted HTML to its standard output,
instead of writing it to a file like Perl 5.003@'s pod2html did.
Use the @strong{--outfile=FILENAME} option to write to a file.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec xsubpp
@table @asis
@item @code{void} XSUBs now default to returning nothing
Due to a documentation/implementation bug in previous versions of
Perl, XSUBs with a return type of @code{void} have actually been
returning one value.  Usually that value was the GV for the XSUB,
but sometimes it was some already freed or reused value, which would
sometimes lead to program failure.

In Perl 5.004, if an XSUB is declared as returning @code{void}, it
actually returns no value, i.e. an empty list (though there is a
backward-compatibility exception; see below).  If your XSUB really
does return an SV, you should give it a return type of @code{SV *}.

For backward compatibility, xsubpp tries to guess whether a
@code{void} XSUB is really @code{void} or if it wants to return an @code{SV *}.
It does so by examining the text of the XSUB: if xsubpp finds
what looks like an assignment to @code{ST(0)}, it assumes that the
XSUB@'s return type is really @code{SV *}.

@end table
@unnumberedsec C Language API Changes
@table @asis
@item gv_fetchmethod and perl_call_sv
The gv_fetchmethod function finds a method for an object, just like
in Perl 5.003.  The GV it returns may be a method cache entry.
However, in Perl 5.004, method cache entries are not visible to users;
therefore, they can no longer be passed directly to perl_call_sv.
Instead, you should use the @code{GvCV} macro on the GV to extract its CV,
and pass the CV to perl_call_sv.

The most likely symptom of passing the result of gv_fetchmethod to
perl_call_sv is Perl@'s producing an "Undefined subroutine called"
error on the @emph{second} call to a given method (since there is no cache
on the first call).

@item perl_eval_pv
A new function handy for eval@'ing strings of Perl code inside C code.
This function returns the value from the eval statement, which can
be used instead of fetching globals from the symbol table.  See
@xref{perlguts,Perlguts}, @xref{perlembed,Perlembed}, and @xref{perlcall,Perlcall}, for details and examples.

@item Extended API for manipulating hashes
Internal handling of hash keys has changed.  The old hashtable API is
still fully supported, and will likely remain so.  The additions to the
API allow passing keys as @code{SV*}s, so that tied hashes can be given
real scalars as keys rather than plain strings (nontied hashes still
can only use strings as keys).  New extensions must use the new hash
access functions and macros if they wish to use @code{SV*} keys.  These
additions also make it feasible to manipulate @code{HE*}s (hash entries),
which can be more efficient.  See @xref{perlguts,Perlguts}, for details.

@end table
@unnumberedsec Documentation Changes
Many of the base and library pods were updated.  These
new pods are included in section 1:

@table @asis
@item @xref{perldelta,Perldelta},
This document.

@item @xref{perlfaq,Perlfaq},
Frequently asked questions.

@item @xref{perllocale,Perllocale},
Locale support (internationalization and localization).

@item @xref{perltoot,Perltoot},
Tutorial on Perl OO programming.

@item @xref{perlapio,Perlapio},
Perl internal IO abstraction interface.

@item @xref{perlmodlib,Perlmodlib},
Perl module library and recommended practice for module creation.
Extracted from @xref{perlmod,Perlmod}, (which is much smaller as a result).

@item @xref{perldebug,Perldebug},
Although not new, this has been massively updated.

@item @xref{perlsec,Perlsec},
Although not new, this has been massively updated.

@end table
@unnumberedsec New Diagnostics
Several new conditions will trigger warnings that were
silent before.  Some only affect certain platforms.
The following new warnings and errors outline these.
These messages are classified as follows (listed in
increasing order of desperation):


@example
(W) A warning (optional).
(D) A deprecation (optional).
(S) A severe warning (mandatory).
(F) A fatal error (trappable).
(P) An internal error you should never see (trappable).
(X) A very fatal error (nontrappable).
(A) An alien error message (not generated by Perl).
@end example

@table @asis
@item "my" variable %s masks earlier declaration in same scope
(S) A lexical variable has been redeclared in the same scope, effectively
eliminating all access to the previous instance.  This is almost always
a typographical error.  Note that the earlier variable will still exist
until the end of the scope or until all closure referents to it are
destroyed.

@item %s argument is not a HASH element or slice
(F) The argument to delete() must be either a hash element, such as


@example
$foo@{$bar@}
$ref->[12]->@{"susie"@}
@end example

or a hash slice, such as


@example
@@foo@{$bar, $baz, $xyzzy@}
@@@{$ref->[12]@}@{"susie", "queue"@}
@end example

@item Allocation too large: %lx
(X) You can@'t allocate more than 64K on an MS-DOS machine.

@item Allocation too large
(F) You can@'t allocate more than 2^31+"small amount" bytes.

@item Applying %s to %s will act on scalar(%s)
(W) The pattern match (//), substitution (s///), and translation (tr///)
operators work on scalar values.  If you apply one of them to an array
or a hash, it will convert the array or hash to a scalar value -- the
length of an array, or the population info of a hash -- and then work on
that scalar value.  This is probably not what you meant to do.  See
@samp{grep}, @xref{perlfunc,Perlfunc}, and @samp{map}, @xref{perlfunc,Perlfunc}, for alternatives.

@item Attempt to free nonexistent shared string
(P) Perl maintains a reference counted internal table of strings to
optimize the storage and access of hash keys and other strings.  This
indicates someone tried to decrement the reference count of a string
that can no longer be found in the table.

@item Attempt to use reference as lvalue in substr
(W) You supplied a reference as the first argument to substr() used
as an lvalue, which is pretty strange.  Perhaps you forgot to
dereference it first.  See @samp{substr}, @xref{perlfunc,Perlfunc}.

@item Can@'t redefine active sort subroutine %s
(F) Perl optimizes the internal handling of sort subroutines and keeps
pointers into them.  You tried to redefine one such sort subroutine when it
was currently active, which is not allowed.  If you really want to do
this, you should write @code{sort @{ &func @} @@x} instead of @code{sort func @@x}.

@item Can@'t use bareword ("%s") as %s ref while "strict refs" in use
(F) Only hard references are allowed by "strict refs".  Symbolic references
are disallowed.  See @xref{perlref,Perlref}.

@item Cannot resolve method @`%s@' overloading @`%s@' in package @`%s@'
(P) Internal error trying to resolve overloading specified by a method
name (as opposed to a subroutine reference).

@item Constant subroutine %s redefined
(S) You redefined a subroutine which had previously been eligible for
inlining.  See @samp{"Constant Functions"}, @xref{perlsub,Perlsub}, for commentary and
workarounds.

@item Constant subroutine %s undefined
(S) You undefined a subroutine which had previously been eligible for
inlining.  See @samp{"Constant Functions"}, @xref{perlsub,Perlsub}, for commentary and
workarounds.

@item Copy method did not return a reference
(F) The method which overloads "=" is buggy. See @samp{overload} in this node.

@item Died
(F) You passed die() an empty string (the equivalent of @code{die ""}) or
you called it with no args and both @code{$@@} and $_ were empty.

@item Exiting pseudo-block via %s
(W) You are exiting a rather special block construct (like a sort block or
subroutine) by unconventional means, such as a goto, or a loop control
statement.  See @samp{sort}, @xref{perlfunc,Perlfunc}.

@item Identifier too long
(F) Perl limits identifiers (names for variables, functions, etc.) to
252 characters for simple names, somewhat more for compound names (like
@code{$A::B}).  You@'ve exceeded Perl@'s limits.  Future versions of Perl are
likely to eliminate these arbitrary limitations.

@item Illegal character %s (carriage return)
(F) A carriage return character was found in the input.  This is an
error, and not a warning, because carriage return characters can break
multi-line strings, including here documents (e.g., C<print <<EOF;>).

@item Illegal switch in PERL5OPT: %s
(X) The PERL5OPT environment variable may only be used to set the
following switches: @strong{-[DIMUdmw]}.

@item Integer overflow in hex number
(S) The literal hex number you have specified is too big for your
architecture. On a 32-bit architecture the largest hex literal is
0xFFFFFFFF.

@item Integer overflow in octal number
(S) The literal octal number you have specified is too big for your
architecture. On a 32-bit architecture the largest octal literal is
037777777777.

@item internal error: glob failed
(P) Something went wrong with the external program(s) used for glob
and C<<*.c>>.  This may mean that your csh (C shell) is
broken.  If so, you should change all of the csh-related variables in
config.sh:  If you have tcsh, make the variables refer to it as if it
were csh (e.g. @code{full_csh=@'/usr/bin/tcsh@'}); otherwise, make them all
empty (except that @code{d_csh} should be @code{@'undef@'}) so that Perl will
think csh is missing.  In either case, after editing config.sh, run
@code{./Configure -S} and rebuild Perl.

@item Invalid conversion in %s: "%s"
(W) Perl does not understand the given format conversion.
See @samp{sprintf}, @xref{perlfunc,Perlfunc}.

@item Invalid type in pack: @'%s@'
(F) The given character is not a valid pack type.  See @samp{pack}, @xref{perlfunc,Perlfunc}.

@item Invalid type in unpack: @'%s@'
(F) The given character is not a valid unpack type.  See @samp{unpack}, @xref{perlfunc,Perlfunc}.

@item Name "%s::%s" used only once: possible typo
(W) Typographical errors often show up as unique variable names.
If you had a good reason for having a unique name, then just mention
it again somehow to suppress the message (the @code{use vars} pragma is
provided for just this purpose).

@item Null picture in formline
(F) The first argument to formline must be a valid format picture
specification.  It was found to be empty, which probably means you
supplied it an uninitialized value.  See @xref{perlform,Perlform}.

@item Offset outside string
(F) You tried to do a read/write/send/recv operation with an offset
pointing outside the buffer.  This is difficult to imagine.
The sole exception to this is that @code{sysread()}ing past the buffer
will extend the buffer and zero pad the new area.

@item Out of memory!
(X|F) The malloc() function returned 0, indicating there was insufficient
remaining memory (or virtual memory) to satisfy the request.

The request was judged to be small, so the possibility to trap it
depends on the way Perl was compiled.  By default it is not trappable.
However, if compiled for this, Perl may use the contents of $^M as
an emergency pool after die()ing with this message.  In this case the
error is trappable @emph{once}.

@item Out of memory during request for %s
(F) The malloc() function returned 0, indicating there was insufficient
remaining memory (or virtual memory) to satisfy the request. However,
the request was judged large enough (compile-time default is 64K), so
a possibility to shut down by trapping this error is granted.

@item panic: frexp
(P) The library function frexp() failed, making printf("%f") impossible.

@item Possible attempt to put comments in qw() list
(W) qw() lists contain items separated by whitespace; as with literal
strings, comment characters are not ignored, but are instead treated
as literal data.  (You may have used different delimiters than the
exclamation marks parentheses shown here; braces are also frequently
used.)

You probably wrote something like this:


@example
@@list = qw(
    a # a comment
    b # another comment
);
@end example

when you should have written this:


@example
@@list = qw(
    a
    b
);
@end example

If you really want comments, build your list the
old-fashioned way, with quotes and commas:


@example
@@list = (
    @'a@',    # a comment
    @'b@',    # another comment
);
@end example

@item Possible attempt to separate words with commas
(W) qw() lists contain items separated by whitespace; therefore commas
aren@'t needed to separate the items. (You may have used different
delimiters than the parentheses shown here; braces are also frequently
used.)

You probably wrote something like this:


@example
qw! a, b, c !;
@end example

which puts literal commas into some of the list items.  Write it without
commas if you don@'t want them to appear in your data:


@example
qw! a b c !;
@end example

@item Scalar value @@%s@{%s@} better written as $%s@{%s@}
(W) You@'ve used a hash slice (indicated by @@) to select a single element of
a hash.  Generally it@'s better to ask for a scalar value (indicated by $).
The difference is that @code{$foo@{&bar@}} always behaves like a scalar, both when
assigning to it and when evaluating its argument, while @code{@@foo@{&bar@}} behaves
like a list when you assign to it, and provides a list context to its
subscript, which can do weird things if you@'re expecting only one subscript.

@item Stub found while resolving method @`%s@' overloading @`%s@' in package @`%s@'
(P) Overloading resolution over @@ISA tree may be broken by importing stubs.
Stubs should never be implicitely created, but explicit calls to @code{can}
may break this.

@item Too late for "-T" option
(X) The #! line (or local equivalent) in a Perl script contains the
-T option, but Perl was not invoked with -T in its argument
list.  This is an error because, by the time Perl discovers a -T in
a script, it@'s too late to properly taint everything from the
environment.  So Perl gives up.

@item untie attempted while %d inner references still exist
(W) A copy of the object returned from tie (or tied) was still
valid when untie was called.

@item Unrecognized character %s
(F) The Perl parser has no idea what to do with the specified character
in your Perl script (or eval).  Perhaps you tried to run a compressed
script, a binary program, or a directory as a Perl program.

@item Unsupported function fork
(F) Your version of executable does not support forking.

Note that under some systems, like OS/2, there may be different flavors of
Perl executables, some of which may support fork, some not. Try changing
the name you call Perl by to @code{perl_}, @code{perl__}, and so on.

@item Use of "$$<digit>" to mean "$@{$@}<digit>" is deprecated
(D) Perl versions before 5.004 misinterpreted any type marker followed
by "$" and a digit.  For example, "$$0" was incorrectly taken to mean
"$@{$@}0" instead of "$@{$0@}".  This bug is (mostly) fixed in Perl 5.004.

However, the developers of Perl 5.004 could not fix this bug completely,
because at least two widely-used modules depend on the old meaning of
"$$0" in a string.  So Perl 5.004 still interprets "$$<digit>" in the
old (broken) way inside strings; but it generates this message as a
warning.  And in Perl 5.005, this special treatment will cease.

@item Value of %s can be "0"; test with defined()
(W) In a conditional expression, you used <HANDLE>, <*> (glob), @code{each()},
or @code{readdir()} as a boolean value.  Each of these constructs can return a
value of "0"; that would make the conditional expression false, which is
probably not what you intended.  When using these constructs in conditional
expressions, test their values with the defined operator.

@item Variable "%s" may be unavailable
(W) An inner (nested) @emph{anonymous} subroutine is inside a @emph{named}
subroutine, and outside that is another subroutine; and the anonymous
(innermost) subroutine is referencing a lexical variable defined in
the outermost subroutine.  For example:


@example
sub outermost @{ my $a; sub middle @{ sub @{ $a @} @} @}
@end example

If the anonymous subroutine is called or referenced (directly or
indirectly) from the outermost subroutine, it will share the variable
as you would expect.  But if the anonymous subroutine is called or
referenced when the outermost subroutine is not active, it will see
the value of the shared variable as it was before and during the
*first* call to the outermost subroutine, which is probably not what
you want.

In these circumstances, it is usually best to make the middle
subroutine anonymous, using the @code{sub @{@}} syntax.  Perl has specific
support for shared variables in nested anonymous subroutines; a named
subroutine in between interferes with this feature.

@item Variable "%s" will not stay shared
(W) An inner (nested) @emph{named} subroutine is referencing a lexical
variable defined in an outer subroutine.

When the inner subroutine is called, it will probably see the value of
the outer subroutine@'s variable as it was before and during the
*first* call to the outer subroutine; in this case, after the first
call to the outer subroutine is complete, the inner and outer
subroutines will no longer share a common value for the variable.  In
other words, the variable will no longer be shared.

Furthermore, if the outer subroutine is anonymous and references a
lexical variable outside itself, then the outer and inner subroutines
will @emph{never} share the given variable.

This problem can usually be solved by making the inner subroutine
anonymous, using the @code{sub @{@}} syntax.  When inner anonymous subs that
reference variables in outer subroutines are called or referenced,
they are automatically rebound to the current values of such
variables.

@item Warning: something@'s wrong
(W) You passed warn() an empty string (the equivalent of @code{warn ""}) or
you called it with no args and $_ was empty.

@item Ill-formed logical name |%s| in prime_env_iter
(W) A warning peculiar to VMS.  A logical name was encountered when preparing
to iterate over %ENV which violates the syntactic rules governing logical
names.  Since it cannot be translated normally, it is skipped, and will not
appear in %ENV.  This may be a benign occurrence, as some software packages
might directly modify logical name tables and introduce nonstandard names,
or it may indicate that a logical name table has been corrupted.

@item Got an error from DosAllocMem
(P) An error peculiar to OS/2.  Most probably you@'re using an obsolete
version of Perl, and this should not happen anyway.

@item Malformed PERLLIB_PREFIX
(F) An error peculiar to OS/2.  PERLLIB_PREFIX should be of the form


@example
prefix1;prefix2
@end example

or


@example
prefix1 prefix2
@end example

with nonempty prefix1 and prefix2.  If @code{prefix1} is indeed a prefix
of a builtin library search path, prefix2 is substituted.  The error
may appear if components are not found, or are too long.  See
"PERLLIB_PREFIX" in @file{README.os2}.

@item PERL_SH_DIR too long
(F) An error peculiar to OS/2. PERL_SH_DIR is the directory to find the
@code{sh}-shell in.  See "PERL_SH_DIR" in @file{README.os2}.

@item Process terminated by SIG%s
(W) This is a standard message issued by OS/2 applications, while *nix
applications die in silence.  It is considered a feature of the OS/2
port.  One can easily disable this by appropriate sighandlers, see
@samp{"Signals"}, @xref{perlipc,Perlipc}.  See also "Process terminated by SIGTERM/SIGINT"
in @file{README.os2}.

@end table
@unnumberedsec BUGS
If you find what you think is a bug, you might check the headers of
recently posted articles in the comp.lang.perl.misc newsgroup.
There may also be information at http://www.perl.com/perl/, the Perl
Home Page.

If you believe you have an unreported bug, please run the @strong{perlbug}
program included with your release.  Make sure you trim your bug down
to a tiny but sufficient test case.  Your bug report, along with the
output of @code{perl -V}, will be sent off to <@file{perlbug@@perl.com}> to be
analysed by the Perl porting team.

@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO
The Changes file for exhaustive details on what changed.

The @file{INSTALL} file for how to build Perl.  This file has been
significantly updated for 5.004, so even veteran users should
look through it.

The README file for general stuff.

The @file{Copying} file for copyright information.

@unnumberedsec HISTORY
Constructed by Tom Christiansen, grabbing material with permission
from innumerable contributors, with kibitzing by more than a few Perl
porters.

Last update: Wed May 14 11:14:09 EDT 1997
