@node perlobj, perltie, perltoot, Top
@unnumberedsec NAME
perlobj - Perl objects

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION
First of all, you need to understand what references are in Perl.
See @xref{perlref,Perlref}, for that.  Second, if you still find the following
reference work too complicated, a tutorial on object-oriented programming
in Perl can be found in @xref{perltoot,Perltoot}.

If you@'re still with us, then
here are three very simple definitions that you should find reassuring.

@enumerate
@item 
An object is simply a reference that happens to know which class it
belongs to.

@item 
A class is simply a package that happens to provide methods to deal
with object references.

@item 
A method is simply a subroutine that expects an object reference (or
a package name, for class methods) as the first argument.

@end enumerate
We@'ll cover these points now in more depth.

@unnumberedsubsec An Object is Simply a Reference
Unlike say C++, Perl doesn@'t provide any special syntax for
constructors.  A constructor is merely a subroutine that returns a
reference to something "blessed" into a class, generally the
class that the subroutine is defined in.  Here is a typical
constructor:


@example
package Critter;
sub new @{ bless @{@} @}
@end example

The @code{@{@}} constructs a reference to an anonymous hash containing no
key/value pairs.  The bless() takes that reference and tells the object
it references that it@'s now a Critter, and returns the reference.
This is for convenience, because the referenced object itself knows that
it has been blessed, and the reference to it could have been returned
directly, like this:


@example
sub new @{
        my $self = @{@};
        bless $self;
        return $self;
@}
@end example

In fact, you often see such a thing in more complicated constructors
that wish to call methods in the class as part of the construction:


@example
sub new @{
        my $self = @{@}
        bless $self;
        $self->initialize();
        return $self;
@}
@end example

If you care about inheritance (and you should; see
@samp{"Modules: Creation, Use, and Abuse"}, @xref{perlmod,Perlmod},),
then you want to use the two-arg form of bless
so that your constructors may be inherited:


@example
sub new @{
        my $class = shift;
        my $self = @{@};
        bless $self, $class
        $self->initialize();
        return $self;
@}
@end example

Or if you expect people to call not just C<CLASS->new()> but also
C<$obj->new()>, then use something like this.  The initialize()
method used will be of whatever $class we blessed the
object into:


@example
sub new @{
        my $this = shift;
        my $class = ref($this) || $this;
        my $self = @{@};
        bless $self, $class
        $self->initialize();
        return $self;
@}
@end example

Within the class package, the methods will typically deal with the
reference as an ordinary reference.  Outside the class package,
the reference is generally treated as an opaque value that may
be accessed only through the class@'s methods.

A constructor may re-bless a referenced object currently belonging to
another class, but then the new class is responsible for all cleanup
later.  The previous blessing is forgotten, as an object may belong
to only one class at a time.  (Although of course it@'s free to
inherit methods from many classes.)

A clarification:  Perl objects are blessed.  References are not.  Objects
know which package they belong to.  References do not.  The bless()
function uses the reference to find the object.  Consider
the following example:


@example
$a = @{@};
$b = $a;
bless $a, BLAH;
print "\$b is a ", ref($b), "\n";
@end example

This reports $b as being a BLAH, so obviously bless()
operated on the object and not on the reference.

@unnumberedsubsec A Class is Simply a Package
Unlike say C++, Perl doesn@'t provide any special syntax for class
definitions.  You use a package as a class by putting method
definitions into the class.

There is a special array within each package called @@ISA which says
where else to look for a method if you can@'t find it in the current
package.  This is how Perl implements inheritance.  Each element of the
@@ISA array is just the name of another package that happens to be a
class package.  The classes are searched (depth first) for missing
methods in the order that they occur in @@ISA.  The classes accessible
through @@ISA are known as base classes of the current class.

If a missing method is found in one of the base classes, it is cached
in the current class for efficiency.  Changing @@ISA or defining new
subroutines invalidates the cache and causes Perl to do the lookup again.

If a method isn@'t found, but an AUTOLOAD routine is found, then
that is called on behalf of the missing method.

If neither a method nor an AUTOLOAD routine is found in @@ISA, then one
last try is made for the method (or an AUTOLOAD routine) in a class
called UNIVERSAL.  (Several commonly used methods are automatically
supplied in the UNIVERSAL class; see @samp{"Default UNIVERSAL methods"} in this node for
more details.)  If that doesn@'t work, Perl finally gives up and
complains.

Perl classes do only method inheritance.  Data inheritance is left
up to the class itself.  By and large, this is not a problem in Perl,
because most classes model the attributes of their object using
an anonymous hash, which serves as its own little namespace to be
carved up by the various classes that might want to do something
with the object.

@unnumberedsubsec A Method is Simply a Subroutine
Unlike say C++, Perl doesn@'t provide any special syntax for method
definition.  (It does provide a little syntax for method invocation
though.  More on that later.)  A method expects its first argument
to be the object or package it is being invoked on.  There are just two
types of methods, which we@'ll call class and instance.
(Sometimes you@'ll hear these called static and virtual, in honor of
the two C++ method types they most closely resemble.)

A class method expects a class name as the first argument.  It
provides functionality for the class as a whole, not for any individual
object belonging to the class.  Constructors are typically class
methods.  Many class methods simply ignore their first argument, because
they already know what package they@'re in, and don@'t care what package
they were invoked via.  (These aren@'t necessarily the same, because
class methods follow the inheritance tree just like ordinary instance
methods.)  Another typical use for class methods is to look up an
object by name:


@example
sub find @{
        my ($class, $name) = @@_;
        $objtable@{$name@};
@}
@end example

An instance method expects an object reference as its first argument.
Typically it shifts the first argument into a "self" or "this" variable,
and then uses that as an ordinary reference.


@example
sub display @{
        my $self = shift;
        my @@keys = @@_ ? @@_ : sort keys %$self;
        foreach $key (@@keys) @{
            print "\t$key => $self->@{$key@}\n";
        @}
@}
@end example

@unnumberedsubsec Method Invocation
There are two ways to invoke a method, one of which you@'re already
familiar with, and the other of which will look familiar.  Perl 4
already had an "indirect object" syntax that you use when you say


@example
print STDERR "help!!!\n";
@end example

This same syntax can be used to call either class or instance methods.
We@'ll use the two methods defined above, the class method to lookup
an object reference and the instance method to print out its attributes.


@example
$fred = find Critter "Fred";
display $fred @'Height@', @'Weight@';
@end example

These could be combined into one statement by using a BLOCK in the
indirect object slot:


@example
display @{find Critter "Fred"@} @'Height@', @'Weight@';
@end example

For C++ fans, there@'s also a syntax using -> notation that does exactly
the same thing.  The parentheses are required if there are any arguments.


@example
$fred = Critter->find("Fred");
$fred->display(@'Height@', @'Weight@');
@end example

or in one statement,


@example
Critter->find("Fred")->display(@'Height@', @'Weight@');
@end example

There are times when one syntax is more readable, and times when the
other syntax is more readable.  The indirect object syntax is less
cluttered, but it has the same ambiguity as ordinary list operators.
Indirect object method calls are parsed using the same rule as list
operators: "If it looks like a function, it is a function".  (Presuming
for the moment that you think two words in a row can look like a
function name.  C++ programmers seem to think so with some regularity,
especially when the first word is "new".)  Thus, the parentheses of


@example
new Critter (@'Barney@', 1.5, 70)
@end example

are assumed to surround ALL the arguments of the method call, regardless
of what comes after.  Saying


@example
new Critter (@'Bam@' x 2), 1.4, 45
@end example

would be equivalent to


@example
Critter->new(@'Bam@' x 2), 1.4, 45
@end example

which is unlikely to do what you want.

There are times when you wish to specify which class@'s method to use.
In this case, you can call your method as an ordinary subroutine
call, being sure to pass the requisite first argument explicitly:


@example
$fred =  MyCritter::find("Critter", "Fred");
MyCritter::display($fred, @'Height@', @'Weight@');
@end example

Note however, that this does not do any inheritance.  If you wish
merely to specify that Perl should @emph{START} looking for a method in a
particular package, use an ordinary method call, but qualify the method
name with the package like this:


@example
$fred = Critter->MyCritter::find("Fred");
$fred->MyCritter::display(@'Height@', @'Weight@');
@end example

If you@'re trying to control where the method search begins @emph{and} you@'re
executing in the class itself, then you may use the SUPER pseudo class,
which says to start looking in your base class@'s @@ISA list without having
to name it explicitly:


@example
$self->SUPER::display(@'Height@', @'Weight@');
@end example

Please note that the @code{SUPER::} construct is meaningful @emph{only} within the
class.

Sometimes you want to call a method when you don@'t know the method name
ahead of time.  You can use the arrow form, replacing the method name
with a simple scalar variable containing the method name:


@example
$method = $fast ? "findfirst" : "findbest";
$fred->$method(@@args);
@end example

@unnumberedsubsec Default UNIVERSAL methods
The UNIVERSAL package automatically contains the following methods that
are inherited by all other classes:

@table @asis
@item isa(CLASS)
@code{isa} returns @emph{true} if its object is blessed into a subclass of CLASS

@code{isa} is also exportable and can be called as a sub with two arguments. This
allows the ability to check what a reference points to. Example


@example
use UNIVERSAL qw(isa);

if(isa($ref, @'ARRAY@')) @{
        ...
@}
@end example

@item can(METHOD)
@code{can} checks to see if its object has a method called @code{METHOD},
if it does then a reference to the sub is returned, if it does not then
undef is returned.

@item VERSION( [NEED] )
VERSION returns the version number of the class (package).  If the
NEED argument is given then it will check that the current version (as
defined by the $VERSION variable in the given package) not less than
NEED; it will die if this is not the case.  This method is normally
called as a class method.  This method is called automatically by the
VERSION form of use.


@example
use A 1.2 qw(some imported subs);
# implies:
A->VERSION(1.2);
@end example

@end table
@strong{NOTE:} @code{can} directly uses Perl@'s internal code for method lookup, and
@code{isa} uses a very similar method and cache-ing strategy. This may cause
strange effects if the Perl code dynamically changes @@ISA in any package.

You may add other methods to the UNIVERSAL class via Perl or XS code.
You do not need to @code{use UNIVERSAL} in order to make these methods
available to your program.  This is necessary only if you wish to
have @code{isa} available as a plain subroutine in the current package.

@unnumberedsubsec Destructors
When the last reference to an object goes away, the object is
automatically destroyed.  (This may even be after you exit, if you@'ve
stored references in global variables.)  If you want to capture control
just before the object is freed, you may define a DESTROY method in
your class.  It will automatically be called at the appropriate moment,
and you can do any extra cleanup you need to do.

Perl doesn@'t do nested destruction for you.  If your constructor
re-blessed a reference from one of your base classes, your DESTROY may
need to call DESTROY for any base classes that need it.  But this applies
to only re-blessed objects--an object reference that is merely
@emph{CONTAINED} in the current object will be freed and destroyed
automatically when the current object is freed.

@unnumberedsubsec WARNING
An indirect object is limited to a name, a scalar variable, or a block,
because it would have to do too much lookahead otherwise, just like any
other postfix dereference in the language.  The left side of -> is not so
limited, because it@'s an infix operator, not a postfix operator.

That means that in the following, A and B are equivalent to each other, and
C and D are equivalent, but A/B and C/D are different:


@example
A: method $obref->@{"fieldname"@}
B: (method $obref)->@{"fieldname"@}
C: $obref->@{"fieldname"@}->method()
D: method @{$obref->@{"fieldname"@}@}
@end example

@unnumberedsubsec Summary
That@'s about all there is to it.  Now you need just to go off and buy a
book about object-oriented design methodology, and bang your forehead
with it for the next six months or so.

@unnumberedsubsec Two-Phased Garbage Collection
For most purposes, Perl uses a fast and simple reference-based
garbage collection system.  For this reason, there@'s an extra
dereference going on at some level, so if you haven@'t built
your Perl executable using your C compiler@'s @code{-O} flag, performance
will suffer.  If you @emph{have} built Perl with @code{cc -O}, then this
probably won@'t matter.

A more serious concern is that unreachable memory with a non-zero
reference count will not normally get freed.  Therefore, this is a bad
idea:


@example
@{
        my $a;
        $a = \$a;
@}
@end example

Even thought $a @emph{should} go away, it can@'t.  When building recursive data
structures, you@'ll have to break the self-reference yourself explicitly
if you don@'t care to leak.  For example, here@'s a self-referential
node such as one might use in a sophisticated tree structure:


@example
sub new_node @{
        my $self = shift;
        my $class = ref($self) || $self;
        my $node = @{@};
        $node->@{LEFT@} = $node->@{RIGHT@} = $node;
        $node->@{DATA@} = [ @@_ ];
        return bless $node => $class;
@}
@end example

If you create nodes like that, they (currently) won@'t go away unless you
break their self reference yourself.  (In other words, this is not to be
construed as a feature, and you shouldn@'t depend on it.)

Almost.

When an interpreter thread finally shuts down (usually when your program
exits), then a rather costly but complete mark-and-sweep style of garbage
collection is performed, and everything allocated by that thread gets
destroyed.  This is essential to support Perl as an embedded or a
multithreadable language.  For example, this program demonstrates Perl@'s
two-phased garbage collection:


@example
#!/usr/bin/perl
package Subtle;

sub new @{
        my $test;
        $test = \$test;
        warn "CREATING " . \$test;
        return bless \$test;
@}

sub DESTROY @{
        my $self = shift;
        warn "DESTROYING $self";
@}

package main;

warn "starting program";
@{
        my $a = Subtle->new;
        my $b = Subtle->new;
        $$a = 0;  # break selfref
        warn "leaving block";
@}

warn "just exited block";
warn "time to die...";
exit;
@end example

When run as @file{/tmp/test}, the following output is produced:


@example
starting program at /tmp/test line 18.
CREATING SCALAR(0x8e5b8) at /tmp/test line 7.
CREATING SCALAR(0x8e57c) at /tmp/test line 7.
leaving block at /tmp/test line 23.
DESTROYING Subtle=SCALAR(0x8e5b8) at /tmp/test line 13.
just exited block at /tmp/test line 26.
time to die... at /tmp/test line 27.
DESTROYING Subtle=SCALAR(0x8e57c) during global destruction.
@end example

Notice that "global destruction" bit there?  That@'s the thread
garbage collector reaching the unreachable.

Objects are always destructed, even when regular refs aren@'t and in fact
are destructed in a separate pass before ordinary refs just to try to
prevent object destructors from using refs that have been themselves
destructed.  Plain refs are only garbage-collected if the destruct level
is greater than 0.  You can test the higher levels of global destruction
by setting the PERL_DESTRUCT_LEVEL environment variable, presuming
@code{-DDEBUGGING} was enabled during perl build time.

A more complete garbage collection strategy will be implemented
at a future date.

@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO
A kinder, gentler tutorial on object-oriented programming in Perl can
be found in @xref{perltoot,Perltoot}.
You should also check out @xref{perlbot,Perlbot}, for other object tricks, traps, and tips,
as well as @xref{perlmodlib,Perlmodlib}, for some style guides on constructing both modules
and classes.
